The Source of Abundant Merit: A Feast-Offering for the Secret Practice of the Great Compassionate
One, Natural Liberation of Suffering
from The Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse
by the First Dodrupchen, Jikme Trinle Özer

Namo lokeśvara-gaṇacakra-pūjā hoḥ

The one who has fully perfected the two accumulations of merit and wisdomAnd accomplished the
twofold benefits, embodiment of the five kāyasAnd protector of limitless beings, is the
treasure of compassion,1Inseparable from Jigme Lingpa, to whom I pay homage!
The concluding stages of the inner practice of the ‘Awareness-Holder Assembly’,2 which is a
mind treasure of Jigme Lingpa that arose from the Dharma’s sky-treasury, have been adapted
here for the secret practice of the Great Compassionate One, the Natural Liberation of Suffering.
Thus, the stages of the feast-gathering are as follows. Since it is said “Display
worldly sensual delights as the feast-offerings. In particular, meat and alcohol are indispensable,”
arrange food and drinks that are untainted by negative actions, according to tradition.
On this occasion, you should first recite the ‘Narak Kong Shak’.3 Then, begin by blessing the
feast-offerings.
1. The Blessing
daknyi tuk lé ram yam kham
From my heart, the syllables raṃ, yaṃ, and khaṃ stream out
tröpé tsok kyi nyekyön jang
To purify any faults or defects in the feast offerings.
om ah hung gi dütsir gyur
Oṃ, āḥ, and hūṃ transform the offerings into amṛta,
döyön namkha nyampar pel
And sensual delights multiply until they are as infinite as space.
ram yam kham | om ah hung
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
2. Inviting the Field of Merit
hung, womin dechen zhingkham dang
Hūṃ! From the Unsurpassed,4 the realm of great bliss,
lhochok riwo dru dzin zhé
The Potala Mountain in the South,
tukjé chenpö zhukné dang
Which is the abode of the Great Compassionate One
drodul trulpé zhingkham né
And the Tamer of Beings’ emanated pure realm,
dukngal rangdrol lhatsok nam
All you deities of the maṇḍala of Natural Liberation of Suffering
tsok la chendren shek su sol
Are invited to this feast gathering—come, we pray.
durtrö tsokkhang nyamré ga
The charnel ground’s hall of gathering is full of joy,
khandrö duwa bakré dro
The assembly of ḍākinīs so joyous and inspiring,
naljor pomo damré tsang
The yogins and yoginīs so pure in their samaya,
döyön tsokchö dang dangden
The sumptuous feast offerings aglow with splendour.
dir shek tsok la jin chen pob
Come, shower down your blessings on this feast!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
3. Offering the First Portion
hung, tsa sum tukjé kyilkhor lha
Hūṃ! To the Three Roots of the Compassionate One’s maṇḍala,
drodul trulpé lhatsok la
Emanated deities of the Tamer of Beings,
döyön longchö tsokchö bul
We offer you this sumptuous feast of sensual delights.
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
ganachakra putsa khahi
gaṇacakra-pūjā khāhi
4. Confession
hung, dak gi tserab tokmé né
Hūṃ! Throughout the course of my lives without beginning,
sang ngak tekchen gor zhuk té
Any transgressions of the root or branch samayas
tsawa yenlak damnyampa
I have committed since entering the Great Vehicle’s Secret Mantra,
döyön tsok kyi chöpé shak
With this feast offering of sensory delights, I now confess!
benza samaya ah
vajra-samaya āḥ
5. Liberation and Offering
hung, marik lé nyön zungdzin gyi
Hūṃ! Ignorance, karma, afflictions and dualistic grasping,
kyepé dakdzin rudra kün
Together with their creations, ego-clinging and all rudras—
zuk la pob chik ni tri dza
Let them be brought into this form—nṛ tṛ jaḥ.
namshé chö kyi ying su pé
Let their consciousness enter the dharmadhātu expanse—phaṭ!
zukpung tsok kyi khorlor rol
And let their body be enjoyed as the feast offering.
rudra sarva hala pentsa putsa khahi
rudra sarva hala pañca pūjā khāhi
6. Dedicating the Remainder
hung, kyilkhor chenpö muren la
Hūṃ! You who dwell on the periphery of the great maṇḍala,
nepé wangchuk ging langka
Īśvarī, kiṃkara and laṅkā spirits,
lhakmé torma di zhé la
Accept this remainder torma
naljor drubpé barché sung
And guard us yogins against obstacles to practice!
utsishta balingta khahi
Ucchiṣṭa-baliṃ te khāhi
7. Invoking the Sacred Pledge
hung, zheng shik dukngal rangdrol lha
Hūṃ! Rise up, all you deities of the Natural Liberation of Suffering!
chö kyi ying né kur zheng la
Take form out of the dharmadhātu!
changchub drubpé barché tul
Crush any obstacles to our attainment of awakening!
nöchü jungwé güpa sol
Halt the decline of the elements in the environment and beings!
tsalung wangtang nyampa sö
Heal any weakness of the channels, wind-energies and authentic presence!5
drubpé drebu chipar dzö
And cause our practice to bear fruit!
8. Invoking the Covenant
hung, ngöntsé womin dechen zhing
Hūṃ! Long ago, in the Unsurpassed realm of great bliss,
lha né sum sok nyamgawar
In places full of joy, like the Three Divine Realms,6
sang chen gyüdé né ten tsé
When the great secret tantras were revealed,
dorjé tekpé kasung nam
The guardians of the teachings of Vajrayāna
damtsik nyenpö dral du zhak
Were assigned places in keeping with their pledges.
bardu gangchen bö kyi yul
Then, in Tibet, the land of snows,
lobpön pema tötreng gi
When the master Lotus Skull-Garland7
sang ngak chökhor korwé tsé
Turned the wheel of Secret Mantra Dharma,
sipé lhasin chegu yi
He seized the life-force of all major gods and demons
soknying trok té tsi su pab
And brought them within his ranks.
tama ösal dakpé zhing
Finally, in the pure land of luminosity,
dewa chenpö podrang du
Within the palace of great bliss,
rigdzin pema wangchen la
The vidyādhara Pema Wangchen,8
pejung drimé özer gyi
Was empowered by the Lotus-Born9 and Drimé Özer,10
longchen zab gyé ukyung zhing
With the profound seal of the Vast Expanse.11
yeshe ying kyi khandromé
When the ḍākinī of the all-pervading space of wisdom
longsal da ri trepé tsé
Entrusted him with the symbolic script to reveal the Luminous Expanse,
zagö sok gi pudri sok
You, Wild Za, ‘Razor of the Life-Force’12 and the rest,
kasung nyenpö khelang zhin
Took a solemn oath to guard this teaching.
chötor gyenden di zhé la
So, accept this offering torma with all its ornaments,
lé zhi trinlé drubpar dzö
And carry out the four types of enlightened activity!
9. Maintaining the Relationship with the Immovable Goddesses
hung, pal gyi kanyen bö kham kyong
Hūṃ! You, who obey the command of the Awesome One and protect Tibet,
masing tenma chunyi nam
Twelve Immovable Goddesses—mothers and sisters—
dir jön tormé shalchu zhé
Come! Accept this cleansing water of the torma,
cholwé trinlé drubpar dzö
And carry out the activities entrusted to you!
mama hrim hrim balingta khahi
ma ma hriṃ hriṃ baliṅ te khāhi
10. The Horse Dance13
hung, drodul tukjé kyilkhor dir
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the Compassionate One, Tamer of Beings,
lokpar drenpé damsi kün
All the corrupting spirits of samaya violation
nen no tekpa rim gü gya
Are held beneath the seal of the nine vehicles.
namyang dangwar magyur chik
Let them never rise again!
tom bhayanen
sthaṃ bha ya nen
11. Receiving the Accomplishments
hung, tukjé chenpö lhatsok nam
Hūṃ! Deities of the maṇḍala of the Great Compassionate One:
nyen ching drubpé damtsik tem
The commitments of approach and accomplishment are fulfilled,
dorjé sempé namyang lang
And the dawn of Vajrasattva is breaking.
ngödrub tsolwé dü la bab
The time has come to grant us the accomplishments!
ku sung tuk kyi kyilkhor du
From the maṇḍalas of body, speech, and mind
mi né yeshe sangwa chok
Inspire us with blessings of the three vajras
dorjé sum gyi jin lob la
Of supreme, secret wisdom that is unconfined.
chok dang tünmong ngödrub kün
And grant us all the attainments, ordinary and supreme,
danta nyi du tobpar tsol
Here and now, this very instant, I pray!
om mani padmé hung hrih | kaya waka tsitta a la la siddhi pala hung
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | kāya-vākka-citta a la la sarva-siddhi-phala hūṃ
12. Confession of Mistakes
hung, tukjé chenpö kyilkhor du
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the Great Compassionate One,
chödzé ma tsang drubpa yel
If my offerings were incomplete, my practice inattentive,
tingdzin jing muk tib lasok
Or my meditation drowsy, dull or lifeless—
galtrul nongpa zöpar sol
Please forgive all such error and  confusion.
om benza sato….
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me
bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ
śreyaṅ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava
mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ
13. Dissolution
ho, chu lé chubur dolwa zhin
Hoḥ! Just like bubbles formed out of water,
rang lé trulpé kyilkhor lha
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala
yeshe ying su benza mu
Dissolve into wisdom’s basic space—vajra muḥ!
jetob gyumé lha kur dang
In post-meditation, everything arises as the deity’s illusory form.
14. Dedication and Aspiration
ho, dü sum sakpé getsa kün
Hoḥ! All sources of virtue accumulated in the three times,
namkhyen dömé gyu ru ngo
I dedicate as the cause for realizing primordial omniscience.
dak sok düpar chepa nam
May I and all those assembled here
tsombu chik tu sangye shok
Attain enlightenment together, in a single maṇḍala!
Three times.
15. Verses of Auspiciousness
om yé dharma hetu prabhava hetun teshan tatagato hyavadat | teshan tsa yo nirodha evam vadi
maha shramana soha
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhavā hetun teṣāṃ tathāgato hy avadat teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ
svāhā
ho, rigdzin gyüpé jinlab dang
Hoḥ! Through the blessing of the lineage of vidyādharas,
könchok sum gyi denpa dang
The truth of the Three Rare and Sublime Ones,
sang ngak zabmö tendrel gyi
And the interdependent circumstances of profound Secret Mantra,
jikgyé zhiwé tashi shok
May all be auspicious, to pacify the eight fears!
tsesö gyepé tashi shok
May all be auspicious, for extending longevity and merit!
nangwa wangdü tashi shok
May all be auspicious, to bring perception under our control!
lokdren tsarchö tashi shok
May all be auspicious, to annihilate negative, misleading forces!
nang zhen lha kü chakgyar dzok
With all attachment to perception transformed and perfected as the form of the deity,
dra drak dechen ngak su dak
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
dren tok ösal chökur min
All thoughts matured into the luminosity of dharmakāya,
jalü zangtal tashi shok
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!

All the concluding practices of the ‘Awareness-Holder Assembly’ have been arranged here for
the ritual of the Natural Liberation of Suffering by the yogi Jigme Trinle Özer, at the request
of two Mongolian monks, and transcribed by Sangye Zangpo. Through the merit of this
may all beings attain the level of Buddhahood.

| Translated by Han Kop and edited by Paul Keller, 2019.

Version: 2.0-20220405
↑ I.e., Avalokiteśvara.↑ Tib. Rigdzin Düpa.↑ Emptying the Hells from their Very Depths: The
Sovereign Practice for the Confession of all Impairments and Breakages of Vows and all Negative
Actions and Obscurations↑ Skt. Akaniṣṭha.↑ Tib. Wangtang (dbang thang).↑ In his word-by-word
commentary on Yumka, Gönpo Tseten Rinpoche says that these are the Five Pure Heavens,
the Joyous Realm (Skt. Tuṣita), and the Heaven of the Thirty-Three.↑ Tib. Pema Tötreng
Tsal, in other words, Padmasambhava.↑ I.e., Jigme Lingpa.↑ I.e., Padmasambhava.↑ I.e., Longchenpa.↑
I.e., The Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse, the Longchen Nyingtik.↑ I.e., Za
Rāhula.↑ I.e., the dance of Hayagrīva.