Cloud-Banks of the Two Accumulations
A Feast Offering Including The Six Vajra Lines Prayer to Be Practiced with Any Guru Sādhana
by Tersé Tulku Choktrul Rinpoche

Arrange whatever food and drink you have, and recite:
ram yam kham, yeshe mé lung chu yi ngö nang jang
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ. Wisdom fire, wind, and water all purify grasping to appearances as real,
nöchü zhir zheng dorjé longchö gyur
And the vessel and contents as the manifest ground become vajra enjoyments.
om ah hum ha hoh hrih
oṃ āḥ hūṃ ha hoḥ hrīḥ
With that, consecrate them. Then, to perform the invitation and present the offering, say:
hung, orgyen yul gyi nubjang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna
pema gesar dongpo la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngödrub nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné zhé su drak
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
Following in your footsteps,
jingyi lab chir shek su sol
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
döyön tsok la chendren na
As we invite you to this gathering of pleasures,
né chok diru jin pob la
Bestow resplendence upon this supreme place,
tsokchö yeshe dütsir gyur
And transform the feast offering into wisdom amṛta!
drub chok dak la wang zhi kur
Bestow the four empowerments upon us, supreme yogis!
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel all obstructers, false guides, and hindrances,
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
And bestow the supreme and common siddhis!

hrih, dü sum sangye guru rinpoche
Hrīḥ. Embodiment of buddhas of past, present and future, Guru Rinpoche;
ngödrub kün dak dewa chenpö zhab
Master of all siddhis, Guru of Great Bliss;
barché kün sel düdul drakpo tsal
Dispeller of all obstacles, Wrathful Subjugator of Māras;
rigdzin gyatsö kyilkhor lhatsok la
And host of maṇḍala deities, infinite vidyādharas—
dorjé longchö döyön gyatsö trin
I present you with ocean-like clouds of vajra enjoyments,
detong zungjuk tsok kyi gyé chö bul
A delightful offering of empty-bliss union.
tukdam kang gyur nyamchak diktung shak
May your hearts be fulfilled! I confess breaches, misdeeds, and downfalls.
solwa deb so jingyi lab tu sol
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessing,
chi nang sangwé barché zhiwa dang
So that outer, inner and secret obstacles are dispelled
sampa lhün gyi drubpar jingyi lob
And all my aspirations are spontaneously fulfilled.
om ah hum benza guru pema siddhi hum
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ

Having attained permission from sublime beings, the one they call Chokling Tersé Tulku, reincarnation
of the son of the tertön Chokgyur Lingpa wrote this in response to the offering
and request made by the caretaker Düdül. Śubhaṃ.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2019 (translated by Laura Dainty, checked against the Tibetan
and edited by Oriane Sherap Lhamo, re-edited by Libby Hogg). First published on Lotsawa House,
2022.

Version: 1.0-20220311